hello my name is Morgan wisely welcome
to my studio in the next few hours we're
going to paint a painting together we're
going to start with stretching the
canvas and I'm going to put together the
stretcher bars we're going to tone the
canvas we're going to go over materials
and then we'll get right into paintings
first thing I have to do is try to get
it so that it's going to position on the
canvas and put it where I want our model
today is the lovely Sierra and she's
going to be trying to hold this pose for
the next few days which I'm sure she
will do you may recognize her from many
of my paintings I've scraped down and I
look for large masses of value now when
I squint down her hair and the plant
this is what I mean about how much do I
have to show in order to make this still
look like what I want look at what's
lost in the shadow by squinting
and you're gonna try and be really
clever about showing as a little as
possible
of the eye and yet it'll look like an
eye so we didn't see any of this before
it's just the hair showing us a little
more but we get a little bit of light on
that neck now just right in this spot
just roughly getting in what's a bit
what the value will be behind the cup in
that spot so I can come back now and I'm
gonna show off this cup some time to
look at it and we're trying to interpret
light and there's the big three shapes
values edges and color to tell that
story and that's what I use to do this
and I hope it'll be useful for you so
thanks for joining us and now we're
gonna go plein air painting